---
layout: default
title: Claim of Apostleship
ref: 17
---

Pedro Dong, São Paulo Regional Service Brothers Meeting, October 2, 2005:

> Number one, what is the Daily Food? What do you see as the Daily Food? How do you see the Daily Food? The Daily Food, saints, is a letter of the apostle who takes care of you, isn't it? He takes care of the churches. He sends this letter to the churches which he cares for, as Paul sends a letter to Thessalonica. And this letter is for the good of the saints in Thessalonica. In other words, this is a letter of a living apostle, a living apostle.

<audio controls>
  <source src="horse.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
<a href="">Listen</a> to an excerpt from the audio of this message.
</audio> 
An excerpt from the audio of this message.

A co-worker of Dong Yu Lan, Message given in Nova Iguaçu, Brazil, September 26, 2008:

> The brothers who want to keep fellowship with the Apostle, we are going to consider as the church...

[Statement from Fernando Monte-Serrat]({{ site.pdf }}/reports/fernando-monte-serrat.pdf), October 26, 2007:

> Although in the beginning Brother Dong used to say that he was not a worker, that he didn't know how to speak and how to work, and that he went to Brazil as a businessman, today he preaches that he was sent by Brother Lee to do the work in South America. This claim is used to strengthen his authority as the "apostle" in South America. I have seen a considerable change in his person, in his acts, and in his discourse over the years.

[Letter from the church in Ambato]({{ site.pdf }}/reports/ecuador-ambato.pdf), October 24, 2007:

> Brother Jorge Navas also said that Andrew Yu had cancer because he didn't want to sign a letter recognizing Brother Dong as the apostle assigned by Brother Lee for South America.

[An invitation to a conference in Rosario, Argentina, June 14-15, 2008]({{ site.pdf }}/documents/2008-07-invitation-DYL-conference.pdf), refers to Brother Dong as "the Director of Editora Árvore da Vida and international conference speaker, the apostle Dong Yu Lan."     

This kind of promotion is contrary to the principles established in the work by Brother Nee and Brother Lee. Concerning Paul's word in Colossians 3:3 that our life "is hidden with Christ in God," Brother Lee said:

> This shows that we should try to hide ourselves, not advertise ourselves. Today many in fallen Christianity put pictures of certain persons who minister the Word in the newspapers to advertise them. That is not a glory but a shame. That is something of worldly religion. We should not have our names advertised in the paper. Once when someone put up a sign advertising that I would speak in a certain place, I charged him to take that sign down or I would not speak. The Lord Jesus never advertised Himself. Instead, He always tried to keep Himself hidden. ([Christ as the Content of the Church and the Church as the Expression of Christ](http://www.ministrybooks.org/books.cfm?xid=J7XOIZ45N5YC2), p. 51)

