---
layout: default
title: Regionalism Misused to Isolate South America from the General Ministry and Fellowship in the Lord's Recovery 
ref: 20
---

 On July 7, 1991, Brother Lee met with Brother Dong and his co-workers along with others from South America. This fellowship took place the day after Brother Lee had shared the message entitled "Knowing the Body," printed as chapter one of [Further Consideration of the Eldership, the Region of Work, and the Care for the Body of Christ](http://www.ministrybooks.org/books.cfm?xid=A6Y3BN31OUOH4) and as chapter 12 of Elders' Training, Book 11: The Eldership and the God-ordained Way (3). In this message he said:

> I am concerned that in the Lord's recovery, the brothers in a certain country may consider that the work there is their work. Then some brothers in another country may consider that the work there is their work. Thus, we have many works. This shows that our situation today is abnormal, yet probably not many of us have the sensation of abnormality in the recovery. There is a practical situation that is abnormal, and the biggest point of this abnormality is the different works.
>
> I hope that we will consider our present situation before the Lord. Are we doing the same one work for the recovery? If not, we should let the Lord have the freedom to adjust us. Thank the Lord that due to the riches of the truth, the Lord's recovery is being welcomed everywhere on the earth. In the Lord's move in His recovery, there should only be one work, not different works. Our situation is different from this. We have different works without any consciousness. This is dangerous. (p. 19)

He then spoke concerning how the current state of the world in terms of transportation and communication had made it possible to carry out one work throughout the earth:

> In Paul's time, because of the lack of modern transportation and communication, it would have been logical to have the work divided. However, there was only one work. Today the globe has been made small by modern conveniences. All the modern conveniences have made the globe just like a city. Despite this we do not have one work but many works. If we stay in this situation, a negative result may come out eventually. We do have an existing problem among us. I hope that we would reconsider our situation. (p. 19)

The next day he repeated this point to Brother Dong and his co-workers:

> In the Bible there are regions of work, as I mentioned last night, but there are only two regions: the Jewish region and the Gentile region. There are no sub-regions in either one.... Paul's region covers greater area than Peter's. Within this region, historically and geographically, Antioch itself can be one region, Asia Minor can be another, Macedonia, Greece... Spain—they all can form their own regions. But were there so many sub-regions in Paul's region?...If this was the case 2000 years ago when transportation and communication barely developed, how much more should we not have sub-regions today? Now we have telephone, telegraph, fax, etc. If in Paul's times there were no sub-regions, much more we should not have sub-regions. But look at us today: there are many regions among us....
>
> There are only two regions in the Bible. Is there a third region? No. No sub-regions, even though there was a vast territory [in the Gentile region]: from Antioch to Asia Minor, to Eastern Europe, to Mid-Europe, then to Western Europe. At that time, Spain was the utmost part of the earth. All these huge areas were only one region. According to the truth, the Body of Christ is one. We must preserve the oneness of the Body. This is Eph. 4:2-4. You must keep the oneness of the Spirit: one Body and one Spirit. To keep the oneness of the Spirit is to keep the oneness of the Body. Obviously, to have so many sub-regions does not keep the oneness.

This fellowship is directly contrary to Brother Dong's speaking that:

* Brother Lee appointed him over the work in the region of South America (see note 74).
* Brother Lee charged him to keep the work in South America isolated from other parts of the earth (see note 19).

Rather than keep the churches in South America in the one work of the common ministry in the Lord's recovery, Brother Dong has misused Brother Lee's fellowship to say that the churches in South America should be in the one flow of Brother Dong's own ministry.

> Brother Lee was really wise in the way he conducted the work and in giving direction to his co-workers. He spoke several times with me about what happened when the brother from England was in Taiwan (the matter that was mentioned in yesterday's portion of the Daily Food), always warning me to be careful to lead the churches in only one line...
>
> Much damage is caused when serving brothers and co-workers are doing different works among the churches in a region. Some brothers begin to seek new things according to their fallen, natural mind and they become cold in the church life and eventually begin to speak negative things. May the Lord Himself preserve His churches and keep them in oneness, in the flow of the life of the Body! (Dong Yu Lan, Daily Food: Practicing the Book of Acts, Week 11, Saturday)

Brother Dong's representation of what Brother Lee told him in private is contrary to both the available record of their conversation of July 7, 1991, and Brother Lee's public statements (see notes 21 and 22). Given Brother Dong's evident misrepresentation of the content of Brother Lee's fellowship with him in their July 7 meeting as a vindication of Brother Dong's ministry and work, his characterization of Brother Lee's fellowship concerning not inviting co-workers to South America is also untrustworthy. 